***********************************************
Do the Timberwolves Actually Give Up Big Leads?
***********************************************

There's a feeling in the zeitgeist that the Timberwolves of the last few years don't
put teams away and frequently give up big leads. I was personally at the `04/21/2022
MEM @ MIN playoff game where the Wolves blew a 26-point lead
<https://www.nba.com/game/0042100153>`_ so I was buying what they were selling.

And I originally wrote this before a twolves :ref:`set a modern NBA record for giving
up the largest lead <twolves-set-a-dubious-nba-record>` against the `Bucks on
04/09/2025 <https://www.nba.com/news/bucks-stun-timberwolves-4th-quarter-comeback>`_.
So I would be remiss for not addressing this first.

But as hard as this is to believe, at least looking at the comeback data as
traditionally defined, the twolves of the last few years are actually better than
holding leads than the league average.

.. _twolves-set-a-dubious-nba-record:

Twolves Set a Dubious NBA Record For Giving Up 24 Point Lead With 10 Minutes Left
=================================================================================

But first, I have to address very recent memory.  Here's a look at comeback odds at 10
minutes remaining in the game since 1996 when play-by-play data first become available:

.. raw:: html

    <div id="twolves_leads/at_10min_all_time" class="nbacc-chart"></div>

And that dot at -24 point margin, which is the largest lead ever given up at the 10
minute mark since 1996, is to the Bucks on 04/09/2025.  Out of the 431 games where a
team was up 24 with 10 minutes to go, we are the first to have lead it slip away.  And
statistically, the odds were about 1 in 1000.  As we say in Minnesota, Oh Geez.


.. _but-what-about-on-the-level:

How Does This Shake Out In The Long Run?
========================================

As our excellent beat writer for the `MinnPost Britt Robson pointed out on twitter
<https://x.com/brittrobson/status/1910151733734498510>`_:

.. pull-quote::
    Chris Finch deserves blame for last night's fiasco + some of the character issues
    w/this team this season--and was blamed on the pod with Dane today. But look at the
    overall body of work + don't mimic stupid kneejerk reactions in Memphis and Denver.

And when I take a cold look at a larger data set from the last 3 years, it doesn't
appear that the wolves are *on average* worse at holding leads:

.. raw:: html

    <div id="plots/recent_min_versus/max_down_or_more_48" class="nbacc-chart"></div>

Here, the 'For MIN' are the comeback for the Twolves and the 'For Plays MIN' are the
comebacks we give up compared against all games in the same time range.

In fact, they are a better than the league average.  Looking at just one point on this
chart, if you are down 20 points or more against the Wolves, your odds of coming back
(``4.90%``) are actually worse than the league average (``5.24%``). And the
Timberwolves are better than average at coming back from 20 points down (``7.46%``).
(Note: this is using the :doc:`trend lines</analysis/forming_the_plot_trend_lines>`
rather than raw data points, which eliminates much of the statistical noise and is a
little more accurate.)

:doc:`There are many ways to analyze this </plots/recent_min_versus>` and they all tell
a slightly different but similar story: the recent Timberwolves are not much different
in giving up big leads than the league average.



.. _other-ways-to-cut-it:

Other Ways To Cut It
====================

But they are *exceptional* that is for sure. For example, check out the the biggest
comebacks ever at 4 minutes remaining from when play by play was recorded:

.. raw:: html

    <div id="twolves_leads/max_4min_all_time" class="nbacc-chart"></div>

Another one for the record books is a -17 point comeback given up by our 2020 Twolves.

But to bolster what I said before, if you look at the next dot over at -16, it's the
Twolves who came back against OKC on 2/24/2025.  Not to mention the recent comeback
from -13 down with 4 minutes left against Houston on 12/27/2024 (hover over the dots to
get the game details and links to nba.com).  So once again the recent Twolves come back
more than they let the lead slip away.

In the end, there's probably some other statistically significant stat (maybe size of
their runs versus runs they let opponents go on) that explain the frequency of these
outliers and why we are collectively chewing our nails to bloody stubs watching them
with a 20 point lead in the 4th.  Again on twitter, `Britt noted
<https://x.com/brittrobson/status/1909794675004702866>`_:

.. pull-quote::

    What can you say? You are what you do repeatedly and Wolves lack poise and cohesion
    when it matters most--repeatedly.

But, with maybe a little bit of solace, at least on average they appear to get the job
done.

